- [Lecturer] So let's get started with the steps.
The first one, is to create a LoggingInterceptor class
in our HPlus application.
And we will do some logging of request data inside it.
So let's go back to the IDE
and I'm going to make another package here for interceptors.
And inside this, let's create a class
which is LoggingInterceptor.
And this one, is as we discussed in the previous video,
going to extend the HandlerInterceptorAdapter.
That's the one.
So this one, has got those three methods
that we talked about,
preHandle, postHandle and afterCompletion.
So you can override one of those in order to facilitate
any kind of pre or post processing logic that you may have.
So let's override the preHandle.
We do not want the super class call that's been done
so, we'll eliminate that
and let me just list out the steps.
First, we will get all cookies
then, we will get the session id from with the cookie
and we log the session id
and we will also log the request path.
So what is the path that you're invoking?
Slash login, slash go to login, slash go to search,
slash whatever URL patterns are present
in the HPlus application.
Every time a request is made
and this interceptor gets call,
you're going to make sure that we log that data.
So how do we do that?
Let's come to the next line
and the first thing that I have to do is,
I have to just make one variable for the session id,
set it to null initially
and after that, let's now get the cookies.
Now let's take a look at this class
in a little closer detail.
This method has three parameters.
httpServletrequest, httpServletresponse
and there is a handler object.
So request and response objects are at your disposal
so that you do the pre and post processing.
So we going to get the cookies
from the request object first
and then, we will try to get the session id cookie
so that, we print the value for it.
So how do we do that?
Let's first check whether the cookies are null.
So I'm just going to say request.getCookies.
So if they are not null,
only then will execute the following code.
So I'm going to run a for loop.
So when you say get cookies on line 18,
you get an array of cookies.
I'm just going to run a for loop for it
and try to retrieve them
So let's just say,
request again, getCookies.
You could have taken it into a separate variable also,
that also can be done.
Let's go inside this and let's check something.
If you want to get hold of the session id,
the cookie name that the servlet SPE
or any other way for MVC framework reserves, is JSESSIONID.
So I'm going to come here and put an if condition
and see if the JSESSIONID is something
that you get as a part of the incoming cookie, Name.
So we are comparing
if the incoming cookie Name from that array
is equal to the JSESSIONID.
If that is the case,
let's quickly assign that sessionId to it.
So that will be by the getValue method.
So once this is done,
let's come out of here on line 26
and put a very small Sys out.
This Sys out is basically
now going to log the incoming request data.
So I'm going to say, let's put quotes,
Incoming request data log
and then I'm going to also say,
session, put a space
just let's say format it
and we're just going to append that sessionId to it.
Additionally, let's also do this at,
the incoming request data log that sessionId
has been encountered right now.
So I'll just instantiate the data object
so I get the current date and time
at which this is happening for us.
Additionally you can also say for, for what?
For this particular request URI.
So what we are trying to say is that,
we have an coming request.
That request is definitely going to enter this interceptor,
LoggingInterceptor and when it does,
this was the sessionId
and this happened at this particular Date time
for this particular URL pattern that was invoked.
So that's what we are saying.
Now at the end of this, if you see preHandle returns,
a boolean value in the method signature on line number 13,
which means, this has to return true
and that is the signal so that
the control goes next to the handler.
So we discussed the chaining of interceptors
and we discussed how the control gets forwarded
to the handler in which cases the controller is not called
et cetera in the previous video.
So that is what it is.
If your interceptor returns true, then it means that
the entire execution of the interceptor was a success
and then the control can be given to the controller.
However, if you try to return false from here,
then the response will go back to the GSP right from here.
The controller will never get invoked.
So that is what the interceptor looks like.
And that's the logic we have written.
Simple, it's just logging request data.
Just one more point here,
instead of doing the Sys out,
you could also use a logging API.
You could use log4j or maybe logback.xml,
anything that suits you, which you're comfortable with
in order to do the logging.